Hear God's word from Genesis chapter 46.
I did not practice all these names out loud, so I apologize for what's about to happen here.
Hear the word from Genesis chapter 46.
So Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father, Isaac, and God spoke to Israel in visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob.
He said, here I am.
And he said, I'm God, the God of your father.
To not be afraid to go down to Egypt for there will make you into a great nation.
I myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also bring you up again, and Joseph's hand shall close your eyes.
Then Jacob set out from Bathsheba, the sons of Israel carry Jacob their father, their little ones, and their wives, and the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
They also took their livestock and their goods, which they had gained in the land of Canaan and came into Egypt.
Jacob and all his offspring with him, his sons and his sons, sons with him, his daughters and his sons, daughters, all his offspring he brought with him into Egypt.
Now these are the names of the descendants of Israel who came into Egypt.
Jacob and his sons, Ruben, Jacob's firstborn and the sons of Ruben, Hanukk, Palu, Hezron and Karmi.
The sons of Simeon, Jaimul, John, Jaimin, Ohad, Jacques, Zohar, and Shah.
The sons of a Canaanite woman, the sons of Levi, Gershan, Kohath, and Mariah.
The sons of Judah, Er, Onen, Sheila, Perez, and Zara, but Erwin, Onen, died in the land of Canaan.
And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul, the sons of Isakar, Tola, Puvah, Yabb, Shimran,
The sons of Zebulun, Serid, Ilon, and Jalil.
The sons of Leia, whom she boarded Jacob and Pat Aniram together with his daughter, Dinah, all together, his sons and his daughters, number 33.
The sons of Gad, Ziphion, Hegai, Shuni, Esban, Eri, Orodai, and Erilei.
The sons of Asher, Imna, Isvah, Isvi, Braya,
surah, their sister, and the sons of Bariah, Heber, and Mecciel, and the sons of the sons of Zilpa, whom Laban gave to Leia his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob, 16 persons.
The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife, Joseph and Benjamin, and to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Esseneth, the daughter of Potiphera, and the priest of On bore to him.
And the sons of Benjamin, Bela, Becker, Ashbell, Garah, Naaman, Iha, Roche, Mufim, Hupim, and Ard.
These are the sons of Rachel who were born to Jacob, 14 persons and all.
The son of Dan, Hushim, the sons of Nefthali, Jazil, Guni, Jezur, and Shilim.
These are the sons of Bilha, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and these she boarded Jacob, seven persons and all.
All the persons belonging to Jacob who came into Egypt who were his own descendants, not including Jacob's sons, wives, were 66 persons in all, and the sons of Joseph who were born to him in Egypt were two.
All the persons of the house of Jacob who came into Egypt were 70.
He had sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph to show the way to him in Goshen.
And they came into the land of Goshen, then Joseph prepared his chariot and went up to meet Israel, his father and Goshen.
He presented himself to him and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while.
Israel said to Joseph, now let me die since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive.
And Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, I will go up and tell Pharaoh and we'll say to him, my brothers and my father's household.
who were in the land of Canaan have come to me.
And the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock, and they've brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.
And when Pharaoh calls you and says, what is your occupation?
You shall say, your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now.
Both we and our fathers, in order that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.
The grass withers and the flowers fade,
But the word of our God will stand forever, and man, you may be seated.
Pray with me, merciful God in heaven, we give you thanks for your word, your words which are alive, your words which still speak and cut to our hearts.
I pray that your word would do that this morning, that your word would speak
They help us to apply these words to our lives and that you continue to transform us and mold us and shape us into your likeness and into your image.
Do this by the power of your spirit.
We pray.
Amen.
You know, one of my favorite summer hobbies is, is I like to smoke meat.
And one of the things about smoking meat is it doesn't take a lot to actually make
Smoked meat tastes good.
People say, oh, that's so amazing.
And it is because it tastes amazing.
But I'm going to tell you right now, it's actually pretty simple.
All you need is some meat.
You need something to put some heat on it that can go over a long period of time.
And you need salt and pepper.
People try to get fancy with the rubs.
They say, oh, yeah, you need like cayenne pepper grown in the mountains in South America, smoked over open fire, a mountain xion or something like that.
No, all you need is salt and pepper.
That's the magic with good smoked meat.
It's just like even a good steak.
What do you put on a good steak?
If it's salt, because what does salt do?
Salt brings out the flavor of something.
Just needs salt.
Salt's an amazing thing.
It's my favorite tool in the cabinet, salt.
And this is what Jesus picks up on when Jesus calls his people to be the salt of the earth.
He doesn't want us to lose our saltiness.
It's more than just, you know, salt has this preservative quality to it.
It can preserve things, make them last a long time, right?
But not only that, salt makes everything better, right?
Salt, salt makes everything taste good.
Salt makes people a blessing.
If you're a salty person, I'm not talking about like, you don't swear like a sailor, not that kind of salty person.
Come on, guys, there's a joke.
There we go.
It's okay.
You got to laugh at the bad jokes because I'm just going to keep going.
It makes us a salty people is to be a people that are blessed in the world.
People that people want to have around because it makes everything better.
This is the kind of people we're called to be.
We make the world taste good, so to speak.
You know, in God, when you think about his mission in the world, his mission into world is to build a salty nation, a salty people,
His mission in this world is to make his name known to the ends of the earth, his salvation known to the ends of the earth.
And the way he does that is by building this kind of people, by making a nation.
This is what God is after in this world.
He's trying to build a salt nation, a nation that is expanding and spreading his kingdom across the world.
And how does he do that?
He does that by building a people, by making us
and since the fall, and even before the fall, this has been God's work in this world, is building a people.
And at Genesis 12, he decides to do this through the family of Abraham, and he picks him, and he says, I'm gonna set you apart, you're gonna be, I'm gonna bless you so you can be a blessing.
I'm gonna make you salty, I'm gonna make you light so that you can shine that light in the world.
To borrow the analogy, and even in that New Testament reading, it's like he's gonna teach you how to fish, so you can go fish,
Make you fish as a man.
This is what he's doing.
This is God's work in this world.
His mission happens through people.
The way God does his work in this world is through you and me and by sending us into his world.
This is work by building a nation.
And at first glance, this is a pretty
cool thing that God would like invite you and I into His holy works.
Like, oh, you want to use me to help you with this mission?
All right, this is awesome.
But then you live a little, and you realize how inefficient this whole project is.
Not only is it inefficient, but a downright opposite of what we think might work.
I mean, we can, even if you just look at the history of Israel and their life, and they constantly had to get disciplined by God and sent out of the Promised Land,
They didn't do very good at this.
Even if you look at our own lives, I mean, it's hard for us to even get the church on time, to start service on time.
Often our experiences too just aren't very good with church.
Like the church, this thing that's supposed to be a blessing to our lives is oftentimes a curse to our lives.
So how is this mission of God supposed to work?
It's supposed to extend his kingdom and his rule and salvation to the ends of the earth.
When we struggle to be the people that He calls us to be, when we wound as much as we heal, how does God actually fulfill His mission in this world through us?
Well, ultimately, I think what we see, what we see even in this passage this morning, which echoes the words that have been given to Abraham, to Isaac, and now to Jacob about what God's doing in this world.
He's building a nation.
Ultimately, the strength of this plan is not our strength.
but it's actually our weakness.
God tells us that he uses the weakness to shame the strong, that he uses the foolish to shame the wise.
The power of God in his mission goes forth actually precisely because you and I are weak.
Our saltiness is not our own.
Our blessings that we have are not our own, but they were given to us to spread out into this world.
And in this passage as we look at Psalm, Genesis 46,
I think one of the things we see here is what kind of people that God is building.
What kind of people that God is calling you and I to be so that his mission can go forth in the world and that his salvation might be known from shore to shore.
And there's two things I want to focus on about the kind of people that God is calling us to be to fulfill his mission.
Those two things are these, that God is calling us to be a sent people
and God is calling us to be a distinct people.
That God is calling us to be a sent people and God is calling us to be a distinct people.
So first, God is calling us to be a sent people.
You know, God's mission in this world is to bless this world.
And that means that he can't bless the world if we are hiding.
And we see this in verse one.
So Israel took his journey
with him that all that he had came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father, Isaac.
So what's happening here?
So right, there's famine in the land.
Jacob just found out Joseph is alive.
The whole family, they're gonna go.
They're invited back to Egypt.
They're gonna go to Egypt.
There's a famine in the land.
They don't go to Egypt.
They're probably gonna die.
And so the whole family's on the way.
And they stop at Beersheba.
Why is this important?
Beersheba is the southern part of the nation.
So throughout the Old Testament, they'll say from Dan de Beersheba, which is saying the whole of the land, from the north to the south, from Dan de Beersheba.
It's like saying, when we say alphan Omega, that's the first and last letter of the Greek alphabet.
So God is the alphan Omega.
He's the beginning of the end, right?
Dan de Beersheba, it's the north to the south.
So he's at the south of the land.
I think of, you know, we just started rewatching Lord of the Rings.
It's that moment where Samwise, Ganges,
steps, stops at the end, he stops his tracks and he goes, you know, if I take one more step, this is the furthest I've ever been away from home.
That's the kind of vibe you get with the Jacob.
If I take one more step, I'm out of the land of promise.
You know, and if you think about it, his father, his grandfather, Abraham and Isaac, both worshipped here.
They both encountered God at this particular place.
And now his Jacob is about to leave the promised land.
He stops at this holy place and remembers this land that was promised to his people.
Yeah, he's about to leave it.
I don't know if the text doesn't tell us this.
This is me speaking for a second.
I kind of wonder if maybe he was hesitating in that moment.
You know, as he's coming by this moment, he's like, oh, this was the land that was given to us.
It's supposed to be our place of blessing.
And now I'm leaving it.
Am I walking away from this blessing?
Is this actually what I'm supposed to be doing?
And if you think about like other times in scripture, this happens, I think about the beginning of Ruth, right where the family leaves Israel, why?
Because they're hungry, there's a famine in the land.
And so they're left to go and they'll go to Moab to find food, which Moab means no fathers.
They leave the land of their fathers to the land of no father.
And I just, I wonder,
Is he wondering, like, should I go?
Like, is this right for me to leave the land of promise?
And at least I imagine there's something about that going on in his head.
So we stop to this place.
He makes a sacrifice.
And then God speaks to him.
And God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, here I am.
Then he said, I am God, the father of the God of your father.
Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt.
See, that's why I think that he might have been afraid to go down because God has to tell him, listen, don't be afraid.
Do not be afraid.
For there, I will make you into a great nation.
I myself will go down with you to Egypt and I'll also bring you up again and Joseph's hand shall close your eyes.
What God is saying is saying, I'm sending you there.
I am with you.
I'm going to fulfill my promise to your father and your father's father, actually, away from the land of promise.
Away from the land, I will make you a great nation.
And this is repeated language that Abraham got and the promise from God to Abraham.
I'm going to make you a great nation.
Your descendants will outnumber the stars.
I'll bring you back, but first I'm going to send you.
And at first, what looks like loss
is actually mission.
That God builds his people, not by isolating them and making life easy for them, but by sending them out.
How can he be a blessing to other nations?
How can the families of Abraham be a blessing to the world if they never interact with the world, if they isolate themselves?
No, this is not how God works.
He sends his people out.
so that they can actually interact with the nations.
His nation is a nation that is beyond natural borders, that is called to dwell within the kingdoms of earth.
And this is a pattern you see throughout scripture, that even in exile, God works from this moment in Egypt where they're sent into Egypt, and God preserves them there and grows their people.
Other times they get sent into exile to Syria or Babylon and God protects a remnant
God always preserves his people even in exile.
And even in the fulfillment of the Great Commission that just to send the gospel to Jerusalem, Judea, to the ends of the earth, how does that happen in Acts?
It happens actually through persecution.
That is a pattern through Acts.
It's when persecution starts to happen to the Christians that are in Jerusalem that they begin to scatter.
First to Judea, then Sumerian, to the ends of the earth, the land of Gentiles.
This is how God's kingdom goes out by him sending us
out.
And sometimes he uses means like persecution and famine, life situations that you would not have brought upon yourself uses those precisely to put you in the world.
This is what we're called to be that God's promise to Abraham was that he was blessed to be a blessing
That means he's blessed to bring the knowledge of God to bear in the earth, which is what our opening call to worship talked about to bring the salvation of God to the ends of the earth.
We do that as we go to them.
This happens as we are sent to them.
And this is our calling as a people.
Our calling is not just a hunker down is not just to gather our saltiness and stored in barns and isolate away from the world.
But we're called to be lamps, cities on hills.
What does that mean?
It means we're called to shine that light in the places that it can be seen in the world.
Where does a lamp do its best work?
What's in the darkness?
What's in the night?
If I had that candle right there, it doesn't do a lot of work during the day, right?
But if it was middle of the night, you would see it.
This is what life is like for us.
We're called to go out into the darkness.
away from the places of comfort, away from our homes, outside of this building.
We're called to live our life of faith in the world so that people will see it.
And listen, the call to be a sent people is a costly call.
It's a costly life.
Listen, this costs Jacob the promised land.
He would die away from the land of promise.
It requires cost.
And as it requires cost, I think it also requires a posture of hospitality, which a hospitality is a word that means love of stranger, that we love the outsider, that we bring the outsider in, that we become a friend of the stranger.
Hospitality says, listen, as Christ has done for you, as He's welcomed you as an outsider in,
So now you go welcome the outsider and this is a call throughout the Old Testament.
You're once a sojourner, right?
Remember the sojourner.
You're a once a stranger to me.
So remember the stranger.
This is how we're able to live as a sent peoples to be hospitable people who go and seek the outsider and bring them in.
This doesn't happen by accident.
It's a posture of hospitality is what we're called to.
And this hospitality will cost you your comforts.
Sometimes it costs you certain customs.
Sometimes it costs you languages and it's not just speaking a foreign language, but when you're hanging out in the world, people speak differently.
You're gonna have to go to them.
It costs you your control over your life.
It costs you predictability.
All sorts of happen, things happen when we actually go out into the world and we bring the stranger in.
It means that person actually comes into this room and that person's gonna change the culture of this church and sometimes that's uncomfortable to have someone who doesn't
isn't supermature in their faith to come and how do we interact with that person and help them and encourage them when they don't talk like us and they don't think like us yet.
It's uncomfortable.
And when there's growth, there's other just uncomfortable things that happen from it.
Someone sits in your seat.
You might have to, well, might grow and add a second service to this church.
And all of a sudden you're like, oh, I don't want to do that.
We want to grow.
We don't want to grow that much.
Or you might grow the point where it's like, hey, we're going to plant more churches out of our church in our city.
Also, those are all painful realities of being a hospitable people that bring the outsider in.
I mean, hospitality is one of those things that always sounds really nice until you have to do it.
And then you're having dinner with someone and it's awkward.
And you're like, I mean, this isn't anybody here.
I love having dinner with all you in here.
I'm talking about those people that aren't here yet, just for the record.
But you know, you have someone
over or you go to someone's house and you don't know what to talk about and it's awkward, it's strange, maybe the food's weird, maybe it smells funny.
Maybe you see the sanitary conditions of the kitchen and you're like, oh, I still gotta eat that, don't I?
Yep, you do.
It'll be all right.
So, right, hospitality sounds so nice on paper when you're reading about it in a book.
And then you have to go do it.
And it's hard and it costs you something.
But this is how God has actually
Making His salvation known to the ends of the earth is through you.
You are the salt of the earth.
You make this place, this world tastes good.
You are a blessing when you go out and you invite people in and your saltiness rubs off on the people around you.
And they too taste the salvation of the world.
This is how God has built in His people because hospitality is gospel in motion.
As you were once a stranger, God invited you in, gave you home, now you go do that.
And we live this out as we are sent out to do this.
If we stay together, isolated from the world, this will never happen.
It only happens as we intentionally go and we live on purpose, out loud, lives that people can see.
Sharing that which we have received.
This is the kind of people we're called to be here.
Of people who actually live in our world, who know our neighbors, who invite them in, so they can join us around this table.
This does raise a problem though.
I think one of the challenges of being a sent people who live in the world, in the real world, is how do we make sure that we're actually not being formed by the culture we're sent into?
This is what Jesus talks about, like there's your salt, don't lose your saltiness.
How do we live in this world without losing that saltiness?
Well, this is where the second aspect of our calling that we find here is that as God calls us to be sent people, He also calls us to be a distinctive people.
This is the second thing we see is that God is calling us to be a distinct people.
And we see this even in here as they're getting sent into this foreign land, there's a distinctness to them
as they go.
And I think that the first aspect of this is found in the names.
I'm not going to reread the names for you.
You're going to have to just let that live in your memory, the perfect reading of those names.
Also, there's so many babies here.
There was just some good names here.
Actually, no, I know of someone named Grishan.
That's actually pretty good.
So anyways, this is something to consider as you're looking at your name board for your family.
There's some good ones here.
Maybe check with them to see what they did the rest of the Bible before you use that name.
pro tip right there.
But one of the interesting things about this, as this list all unfolds, I don't know if you noticed this and thought, oh, that's interesting.
In verse 26 to 27, he's kind of like summarizing this and he's like, oh no, verse 25.
And he says, oh no, nope, I was right.
At the very end of this, in verse 27, he says, in the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two, and all the persons of the house of Jacob who came into Egypt were 70.
It's kind of interesting.
Like, why point out the name that the number of the people, he's doing a little math for us, which is thank you, because I didn't want to have to count those up.
I'm sorry, I can trust you, Moses, that you've got to write.
So 70, whenever Scripture points out specific things like this, especially in this form, he's trying to tell us something.
What is he trying to tell us?
So I think the connection
is to the table of nations that you see in Genesis 10, and there's 70.
This is right after they come out of the ark, and they grow, and the people multiply, and there's 70 of them.
This is the repopulating the earth.
It's the symbol of this new humanity that's being formed.
And now you get this interesting callback to this, that now in exile, now is the people that are in a new ark of sorts for a time, which Egypt is for the people.
They are a new kind of people.
They're a miniature humanity.
They're a new humanity.
They're a nation dwelling within another nation.
They're living among the nations, but as a distinct people with distinct customs in the world, but abiding the world in to conform to it so they don't conform to the world.
They're a nation within the nations distinct.
They have their own worship.
They have their own
calendar that tells time for them.
And this is why religious calendars sometimes be taken for granted living in the West, but they're so vital and important because religious calendars always told the time for the people.
That is true in Egypt, that is true for the people of Israel.
And so they have a different calendar.
The way they tell time is actually different.
Their food customs are different.
They are a new city.
They're a city within the city.
They're a nation.
And they're a nation that's
called to live inside this other nation, drawing the people into its city and customs, not the other way around.
They're sent, but they're distinct.
And you see this more clearly with the way this ends, which is kind of strange.
I don't know if you noticed the strangeness of this where they're called.
And Joseph's like, hey, tell them that you guys are shepherds.
And at the end of verse 34 it says, and you shall say,
Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now, but both we and our fathers in order that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians."
I mean, that's interesting, right?
Like, oh gosh, what do you have in the shepherds, you know?
That they're an abomination.
It seems like kind of strong language.
What's why despise shepherds?
There's a few people that think this.
I think that there's a connection here that is right.
An interesting connection to actually Cain and Abel.
Cain and Abel, Abel, who was murdered by his brother Cain, what it was Abel's occupation.
Well, he was, interestingly enough, a shepherd.
Cain was the one who worked in the dirt who, from his descendants, actually, they invented technology and all sorts of building things.
building cities and Egypt is known for that.
And I think there's connection to the, there's a kindness to Egypt and God's people are able kind of people, the shepherds.
And either way, even if that connection is a little far-fetched for you, either way what you see here is that the people, they took the job that was available to them.
The job that no one wanted to do, the shepherds, was the very thing that they were really good at.
And if you remember Jacob's story, he's really good at being a shepherd.
They took the job available and it made him distinct.
And Jacob's descendants are the shepherds, and this is a humbling thing for them.
This is a job that no one wanted.
But important, right?
It's important for food, for clothing.
And they say, listen, we'll take that.
That's the thing that you hate, but it's necessary for our society.
Yeah, we'll go and we'll do that.
We don't mind the low-class job.
Listen, we know who we are.
God's people and he's going to make us a great nation and he's going to use this low class job that people despise to actually make us a great nation.
And listen, God does.
They grow.
They grow so much that the next Pharaoh at the beginning of Exodus is threatened by them and then slaves them because he's scared of them.
They're called to be a distinct people in this land.
I think one of the ways we show our distinctness is that when we live in this world, we ask first, what does this place need?
Not what do I need, not what do I want to do, but hey, what does this place need and what is no one else willing to do?
Let's go ahead and do that.
As a distinctive kind of people, our posture in this world is first service.
Care for others.
where we seek not merely the benefit of ourselves, but of our neighbor.
I mean, imagine, you know, I'm very guilty of this too.
But imagine if we asked our kids not, hey, what do you want to do when you grow up?
What are you super passionate about?
What if we asked them, hey, where is God uniquely gifted you to serve the world?
It's a very different posture.
Not how can I make the most money, which is great.
We love it when people make money.
What has God gifted me with?
And how can I use that to actually serve this world?
It's a very different posture.
And this is the kind of distinctive people that we're called to be in this world as we go out.
We're called to be in this world, but not love in the world, but what's the saying?
It completely lost my mind.
In the world, but not of the world.
There we go.
I'm a professional here.
In the world, but not of the world.
This is what you see here.
They're in this world.
They're in Egypt, the nation within the nations.
But they are a distinct people.
They look different.
Their jobs are different.
Their life is different.
The humanity is different.
And one of the things you notice about this is both being sent and being distinct are costly things.
People don't like it when you're different from them.
Like just as you're trying to conform the nations to you, just as we're trying to go out and bring the nations in so they too can taste of the goodness of the Lord.
We think that's a good thing, right?
They're trying to do the same thing to us.
They're trying to get you to conform to them.
Think about like if you've ever been hanging out with friends that you don't share faith with, and maybe you're having a dream, maybe this is the first example, I got a guy example, then I got a lady example, just, you know, not that these things can be inverse, but just setting it up.
So if you're having a drink, if your guys are having a beer together and the guys are starting to drink too much and you stop yourself, they're gonna egg you on and be like, hey, dude, keep up with us.
What's wrong with you?
And I'm like, no, I'm fine.
I'm good.
They're gonna encourage you to keep up.
They might call you soft.
And if you challenge a guy's strength and humanity, he's like, well, I'm not soft.
But that's when it gets hard is when we actually say no to people, when we actually look different.
People don't like that.
It will cost you a relationship.
They're going to say, oh man, what do you think you're better than us?
And then with ladies, you might be hanging out with friends or co-workers.
And there might be a temptation in that group to start talking bad about someone in gossip or talk negatively about your husband because everyone else is talking down about their husband and say, well, I'm going to fit in.
They look to me.
So I'm going to imagine any wife in this room can think of negative things about your husband.
You could say.
I mean, my wife can't.
I'm sure yours might be able to.
She's not even making eye contact with me right now.
She's like, I can't, I can't.
Right?
And your temptation will be to join them.
It will be.
And if you have the courage to pull back and you speak positively and not negatively, your friends will not like that.
You've probably experienced this before.
People do not like it when you are different.
They will think that you're judging them.
Being in this world without conforming to the world is not only hard, but it puts a target on your back.
Again, this got Israel enslaved by the Egyptians.
People do not like it when you're different.
So how do we apply this in this world?
How do we actually live this out?
I'm not going to give you as many specific things as you're probably going to want from me, and I'm sorry.
Because this is one of those things I'm going to use a cheat word pastors use.
It requires wisdom.
So pastors use you like, I don't want to give you specifics right now.
So I'm going to tell you, it requires wisdom to live this out.
You know, there are some things that are black and white, like about the Ten Commandments like you shouldn't worship foreign gods and don't bow down to them.
Don't pray to them.
Now that's religiously.
I think we have all sorts of like little hidden gods that we hold on to.
comfort and materialism and wealth and sometimes it's even our own families and children.
There's all sorts of ways that we do that.
There are some black and white things.
Don't covet your neighbor's wife and all those things.
There are black and white things in the laws of God.
But the way we live this out and how do we invite the stranger in and try to remain distinct while being together with them requires wisdom.
It requires a lot of care.
It requires humility and requires doing this together as a as a people.
You don't go out alone.
You're not one little speck of salt.
You know, you're like, you know, a handful of salt that we're going out into the world together with working together to do this together.
And we can't do this alone.
But I think the only way we can do it is if we follow Christ who goes before us Christ, who is the, the good shepherd Christ to the one who came in weakness to what to build a new people in himself.
We are now called the body of Christ.
We're the nation of Christ.
We took what he started in Abraham, and now it's expanded to all nations.
This is the church.
Hebrews tells us that by faith, we're all sons and daughters of Abraham, and this is actually happening.
The church, we are this great nation.
It's Christ's blood that connects us to this mission, and he's calling you to go out on this mission.
And one of the primary ways this happens for us, and one of the primary ways we can actually live this out well, is by doing what we're doing this morning.
Just like here, you see this, he sends him, he said, I'm gonna call you back.
You know, it took a long time, many years, but there's a microcosm, well this happens to us every week, where God calls us back, and this is this place of promise here, where we remember who our God is, we are salt, it regains its saltiness, the wicks of our candles, our lights are trimmed, and we grow in that strength, the faith, the memory of who we are, we're the people who are dying around the table of Christ, are united together,
We come, we gather, and then we're sent out into this world, right?
We're sent out with that light, with that saltiness, with that invitation to come and dine around this table that we bring the others.
We have the highways and the bioways and fight people in.
We remember who we are, then we go back out.
This is ebb and flow, and we need this because the reality is living in this world and not of the world is kind of like, if you ever tried to walk on a beach and not get sand in your shoes, does anyone ever tried that?
I have it.
I mean, you're kind of like doing the high step, you're like, oh, I can do it.
But even when you step like that, I mean saying still gets in your shoes, it's like us when we go into the world, the world will attach itself to you.
There's ways that you've adopted worldliness, myself included, that maybe you don't even realize.
It just, it will happen.
And so this is why these rhythms of ebb and flow of back and forth are so necessary for us to be able to dump the sound out of our shoes in these moments and to remember who we are.
with the children of God.
We are the great nation.
We are the salt of the earth.
We're the ones of the heralds of the gospel that takes salvation to the ends of the earth that begins in here and flows out of there.
This is ebb and flow.
This is practically the most important thing you do is this.
Mission flows out of this.
And as you come in here and as you again experience a great hospitality of the Lord,
You'll be changed and you'll be, you know, even if it's just one degree more hospitable when you walk out and then you come back and then it's a lifetime pursuit where we grow in these things, where we get our lives strengthened, our salt strengthened.
Join the people in.
And so the question is twofold.
One, it's this, this rhythm of coming and going.
So you know where you're coming here.
This slanda promise, so to speak, this microcosm of the kingdom right here.
Then as we go,
The question you need to think about is, okay, where has God sent me?
Where do I live?
Where do I work?
My family and don't forget your family.
Sometimes we go straight to like going out into the workplace and we stop being salt in our own families.
Your family needs that too, your home who you live with.
They need that too.
But where has God sent you?
He's not sent you there by accident.
And do you think of yourself as being sent, whether it's in your home raising your children or into a workplace?
Just as Jacob was sent
to Israel, so God has actually sent you there.
He has you there on purpose.
Are you a blessing?
Do you make the places that you are taste good?
This is what we're called to be.
And we can only do that.
If we come in here, remember who we are to be sent out there.
Maybe grow in this.
Maybe grow in our ability to be strong as we are sent that we can live in this world, but not of this world, spreading the salt of God's kingdom wherever we find ourselves.
Pray with me.
Merciful God and heaven, we give you thanks for your goodness.
We give you thanks that you've called us out of the kingdom of darkness and placed us in the kingdom of light.
I pray that you would strengthen us in your kingdom, that you would strengthen our witness, that you strengthen our love, that you strengthen our convictions, that you would make us a blessing people in this city.
We pray that you continue to grow this in us by faith and you and you alone.
Amen.